# Investigating-patent-segmentation-using-artificial-intelligence-to-aid-patent-semantic-search
Inventions that are unique, inventive, and non-obvious are eligible for patents, which provide the owner legal protection against others making or selling them. Any person seeking a grant for an invention must prepare a clear and precise patent application document and submit it to the patent office. This is where the examiner plays a role. Examiners frequently need to read patent applications carefully in order to make the right decision to allow or reject them.
As part of the examination procedure, the examiner needs patent semantic search to identify pertinent data which is time-consuming as it requires manual work.
In this master thesis, we present two techniques to help with the preliminary steps to aid semantic search. These techniques are claim segmentation and document segmentation. Previous work on patent segmentation focused on hard-coded methods. In this work, we employ artificial intelligence tools using the USPTO dataset. The idea is to segment the claim into separate elements called claim features and segment the reference document into passages called embodiment. The task of the semantic search will be made easy by these two types of segmentation. It would just imply looking up claim features in claim embodiments as answers
to queries.
The patent claim segmentation task is done using rule-based, machine learning, and deep learning techniques. The rule-based technique presents claim segmentation as a supervised learning task. For machine learning, we use the random forest, whereas deep learning makes use of CRF, Bi-LTSM, and two different types of pre-trained BERT models. These models were evaluated based on their precision, recall, F1 score, and accuracy. Different scores were achieved by these models considering various parameters. The BERT for patents model achieved the best results, with an F1 score of 88 % and an accuracy of 88 %. For the document segmentation task, we used topic tiling as an unsupervised technique to segment the document using the Latent Dirichlet Allocation topic model, and for the supervised technique, the BERT model is used. Different evaluation scores are used namely Pk, precision, accuracy, recall and F1 score. Our BERT model achieved the best performance with an accuracy of 92% and an F1 score of 81%
